I'm Jake Behrens,
Apple's UI Frameworks Evangelist.
Adding Location Awareness to
your iOS application can make for
some incredible user experiences.
Today, you're going to learn how to
use region monitoring to create
more personalized experiences
for your users using geofencing.
Then,
you're going to learn about geocoding on
iOS to display location-based information
in a meaningful way to your users.
Finally,
you're going to see how to use Xcode and
the iOS Simulator to make the most out of
testing your location-aware applications.
Let's get started.
Maybe you're displaying a map
that shows the user's location in
relation to other points of interest,
or where their friends are.
Or maybe you're using a set
of coordinates to display
relevant information to the
user about where they are.
Both of these user experiences make the
application more valuable to the user.
But how do you take this
functionality farther?
You make the experience more personal
and more meaningful to the user.
Setting a reminder with Siri is
a great example of this.
The reminder is more personal because
the user doesn't have to add an address,
they just say work for the location.
It's also more meaningful because work is
in a language that the user understands.
If this phone's locale
was set to Germany,
the text would also be in German,
meaning that the user doesn't have
to guess at what this information is.
represents.
One more important aspect of
location-aware applications is testing.
You need to test your application
to make sure that the experience
is great the first time a user
launches your application.
You need to test not only where you are,
though, but other places your users
will use the application in.
You want to ensure a great
experience for everyone.
So let's start with geofencing on iOS.
If you haven't used geofencing,
you may be asking, what is geofencing?
Geofencing is where you take
a point and you map this
point to a physical location,
maybe on a map.
Then you use that point as a center
coordinate for a virtual perimeter,
a geofence.
Then, when a user moves in or out
of this virtual perimeter,
your application responds with an action.
Let's see this in action.
Once the user moves,
they end up reaching the bounds
of a region and are prompted by an
application to conduct an action.
A great example of this on iOS
5 is with the Reminders app.
You can set a location and add a
geofence around it so that you're
prompted to do something when
you either leave this geofence,
the virtual perimeter,
or when you enter it.
You can see here I've set a reminder
for when I leave my current location.
You create geofences using the
Region Monitoring API on iOS 5.
This API allows you to register regions,
these virtual perimeters,
using a coordinate and a radius.
Then your application can receive
a callback when the user enters
or exits a specific geofence.
Some of you may be saying,
"We've had region monitoring
on iOS 4." And you're right,
we did.
But on iOS 4,
we used cell towers as our way
of triangulating your position
and then firing region events.
Well,
I'm happy to tell you that on iOS 5,
we've added Wi-Fi and
GPS to the equation.
So now we're using all available
hardware sensors to triangulate your
position and provide much higher
accuracy for region monitoring.
So what's new under iOS 5?
Improved accuracy.
Due to using all of the
sensors in your device,
in some situations,
it can be up to 10 times more accurate.
And I'm not talking about
newest hardware only.
This is using the same hardware you've
been using region monitoring on already.
We've just added more capabilities
for improved accuracy.
We've also added some
more informational API.
When you register regions,
we will look at the region monitoring
and the region monitoring data.
This will let you know what the
status is of that registration.
So let's jump right into
setting up regions or geofences
with region monitoring.
As with other location services,
you first need to add the Core Location
framework to your application.
You'll also need to add a delegate
object that will receive the
delegate callbacks later on.
This is usually your app
delegate or a view controller.
Then, you need to create a
SEAL Location Manager object.
Now, I'm not going to go into too
much depth on how to set up and
configure your Location Manager.
This is a topic we've
discussed many times at WWDC,
and if you've never used the
Core Location framework before,
I highly suggest you read our
Location Awareness Programming
Guide on the Developer Center or
watch previous WWDC sessions.
Now, finally,
your delegate object needs to
adhere to the SEAL Location
Manager delegate protocol.
This makes sure that the
Location Manager can fire
those delegate callbacks later.
With that, you're ready to start creating
and registering regions.
You also want to make sure that
you're checking to see if the device
even allows for region monitoring.
Some older devices don't,
so you need to check the
Region Monitoring Available Boolean
on the Location Manager to make sure
that you can start monitoring regions.
Next,
you want to check what the authorization
status is for location services.
Users can set this in the Settings app,
and we'll talk later about the different
values and what those can mean.
You start creating a region by
creating a center coordinate.
So here, you need to create a seal
location coordinate 2D with
a latitude and longitude.
Then,
you need to create a seal region object.
You do this by calling init
circularRegionWithCenter,
handing in that center
coordinate that you just created,
radius, defining how big you want the
radius to be for this geofence.
Now, we have some constants you can use,
but you can also just
define this in meters.
And finally, identifier.
The identifier is a crucial
part of creating a region.
It's not something that is going
to be displayed to the user,
but it's a property on a region
that you can check when you
get a seal region object passed
in with a delegate callback.
This allows you to know which
region triggered the event,
and then you can respond accordingly.
So, here, we have a region with a
latitude and longitude.
And here, we have a region with a
Finally, you can register the region
with Location Services by first
creating the CLRegion object,
which you just did, and then you call
startMonitoringForRegion,
handing in the region object
that you just created.
You call this on the Location Manager,
and it's going to talk to Location
Services to register the region.
So let's see that in action.
When your delegate
object creates a region,
that object is then handed
to the Location Manager to
register with Location Services.
The Location Manager then hands
that region object to Location
Services to be registered.
And finally,
Location Services hands the region
object back to the Location Manager,
and the Location Manager hands that
same region object back to the delegate
as a parameter of a delegation.
get call back.
If the region was
successfully registered,
you will get the Location
Manager Did Start Monitoring
for Region callback.
You can then check that identifier
property of the region object and
see which region was registered
with the OS so that you can
update your UI if needed.
In the event that the region
could not be registered,
you're going to receive the Location
Manager "Monitoring did fail
for region with error" callback.
Again,
you can check the identifier of the
passed-in CLRegion object to see which
region was unable to be registered.
And that's it.
That's all there is
to setting up regions.
Now you wait for your user
to move around the world,
and you'll be able to respond
to two different events.
The first event is Location
Manager Did Enter Region.
This means that the user has entered
the region you've registered.
The second is Location
Manager Did Exit Region,
meaning that the user
has left the region.
Now both of these methods include the
Seal Region object so that you can,
again, check the identifier of the
region and respond accordingly
within your application.
Now I mentioned earlier that you
need to check the authorization
status when setting up regions.
You can see here that the
application has prompted the user
to use their current location.
Now, this permission dialog will include
the name of your application.
But you need to plan for the user tapping
"Don't allow." They may not know why your
application wants to use their location.
Maybe it's not obvious from the type
of application that they've downloaded
that it needs to use location services.
But this is your chance to be as
informative as you can to the user.
Here what you can do is you can use the
Purpose property on the Location Manager.
And the Purpose property allows
you to provide a string into the
prompt and let the user know why
you need to use their location.
Maybe it's because the application
isn't the type of application that would
normally need to use location services.
By using the Purpose property,
this allows you to give more information
to the user and let them decide how
they want to respond to using their
location within the application.
Now,
once the user accepts to use location
services within the application,
the user will see a purple arrow in
the status bar when the application is
currently using their current location.
The user can also go to Location
Services in the Settings app and change
the location services for the device
overall or for individual applications.
They have an enabled switch
for the device overall,
but they can also see the
list of applications that
want to use their location.
Additionally,
they can turn location services
on or off per application.
And a location arrow lets them know
which applications have used their
location information within the last
24 hours or which applications are
currently using that information.
If it's been used in the last 24 hours,
the location arrow will be gray.
If the application is currently
using their location data,
the arrow will be purple.
You can check this authorization
status by checking the Authorization
Status property on Location Manager.
You can also respond to the Location
Manager did change authorization
status delegate callback when
the user changes their options.
These are the authorization
statuses available.
Not determined means that the
application can use location services
and the user hasn't been prompted yet.
So you can try to use their location and
the user will be prompted at that time.
Additionally,
authorized means that they've
tapped OK and the application
can use location services.
Denied means that they've either tapped
Don't Allow for your application,
switched it off in
location service settings,
or they've turned it off
for all applications.
Now, whether they've turned it
off for just your application
or for the device overall,
the end result is the same,
and you should just respond accordingly.
Finally, there's restricted,
which means that the user can't
authorize the application.
Now, this would be in a situation where
maybe due to parental controls,
the user is not able to actually
change location service settings.
So in this case,
you don't want to hound them to change
their settings because they can't.
You should just do the right thing.
So as I said, you want to make sure that
you do the right thing for
when users tap Don't Allow.
Your app needs to continue to function
and not just sit at a blank screen if
the user declines location services.
You also need to make sure that the
application will degrade gracefully and
still continue to work for the parts
that don't require location services.
And then you want to make the user aware
of the limitations of their choice.
If your application requires
location services to have any value,
you need to let them know.
But let them know in a subtle way.
You don't want to do this
in the form of a prompt.
You just want to do
this as part of your UI.
Let them know in a meaningful
and non-obtrusive way.
Region monitoring also gives you
background updates automatically,
even if your application
is not currently running.
Typically, for background updates
with location services,
you need to add the location
string to the UI background
mode's key in the info.p list.
If you're only using region monitoring,
though, this is not required.
Your application, as I said,
will be launched into the
background if an event comes in.
So, when your application is woken up,
Application Did Finish Launching
with Options will be called,
and you'll be handed a
Launch Options Location Key that
tells you that your application has
been woken up by a location event.
However, don't use this to solely check
whether you need to set up
a location manager or not.
You should always have a location
manager set up if you're using
any location-aware services.
A situation that you could find
yourself in is where a region
event has come in and the user
has just launched the application.
If that happens,
the Location Key may not come in
with Application Did Finish Launching
with Options.
And in that case,
you want to make sure that your
location manager still gets set
up so that you can receive events.
Let's see how this works.
What happens here is that you have the
system layer and location services.
Now when a region is triggered,
location services says,
"I have a region event." Then,
if your application is no longer running,
it'll wake up the application
in the background.
Now this is when you need to
set up your location manager.
If your application wasn't running,
this may have been due to memory
pressure on the OS and your
application was jettisoned,
or maybe the user restarted their device
and hasn't run your application since.
So now that you have your
Location Manager set up,
then Location Services can hand over the
region event to the Location Manager,
and the Location Manager can
fire a delegate callback with the
region that triggered the event.
If you don't have the
Location Manager set up,
what happens is that the region
event starts with Location Services,
moves to your application,
but then the manager
isn't there to respond,
and so the region event just goes away.
And it seems as if your application
is no longer getting region events.
Now something that I've had many people
ask about is what the battery consumption
is like using region monitoring.
Well, I'm happy to tell you that
battery consumption for
region monitoring is minimal.
This is because we use all location data
coming into the device to determine if
a region has been entered or exited.
Even if another application
is using Core Location,
any location data will also be used
to figure out if a region event
for your application has occurred.
You want to create a great user
experience using region monitoring.
Some ways to increase this user
experience is by monitoring
regions that are appropriate.
Now, maybe I own a coffee shop,
and when the user launches my app,
I want to register some
regions to let users know when
they're near one of my shops.
The problem is,
I don't want to register all
1,000 locations because that's
not meaningful to the user.
What you want to do is maybe
grab their current location and
then decide which regions would
be most appropriate to monitor,
or even let the user decide
which locations they care about.
You want to ensure that you're not
inundating the user with prompts for
things that they don't care about.
Now, remember that your application
has a limit to how many regions
it can set up at one time.
This means that you may want to
see which regions you're currently
monitoring from time to time.
You can do this using the monitored
regions property of the location manager.
This gives you an NS set of CL region
objects that you can iterate
through and check their identifiers.
Additionally,
if you find a region that you
don't need to monitor anymore,
you can then call stop monitoring for
region on the location manager and
pass in the CL region you want removed.
This will free up another spot
for another region and ensure that
you're not inundating the region.
Now, when monitoring large regions,
the first thing you want to
do is check what the maximum
region monitoring distance is.
This will ensure that you
can still monitor the large
region that you want to.
If your region radius is larger
than this maximum distance,
then the registration will fail.
So as you've seen,
region monitoring is very easy to set up.
You saw that it takes very
little to get up and going.
It also makes for very personal
experiences because these are locations
that the user is used to moving
between within their daily life.
Finally, you want to respect user choices
when it comes to authorization.
You don't want to hound the
user to make certain choices,
and you don't want to make your
application non-responsive if they
decide not to allow location services.
You want to do the best thing
that you can for your user.
Next, let's talk about geocoding.
We've introduced a lot of new
features for geocoding under iOS 5.
Now, most people don't think about
locations in the form of coordinates.
They don't say, "Oh,
I know where that coordinate is.
It's two blocks to the left
and north just a bit." But an
address is more meaningful,
and a lot more people
understand what an address is.
But if you've never been to Cupertino,
California, maybe you don't know what
this address represents.
So how can you make this even
more meaningful to a user?
Well, maybe just by telling them
that it's a point of interest.
This helps them get their bearings and
understand what this location means.
So why would you geocode?
Well, you want to describe a location
in a meaningful way to the user.
You want to provide them more meaningful
information about a location other than
just a set of coordinates or an address.
You also want to make sure that
you deliver information in a
way that they can understand.
And this usually means in the
language of which they speak.
You want to make sure that this
information is localized to
match their device's locale.
This is how they consume
information on their device.
So what's new in iOS 5?
We have reverse geocoding.
And we've had reverse geocoding before,
for those of you who have used it,
but we've done a whole
lot of changes to it,
and we've actually moved it out of
the MapKit framework and moved it
into the Core Location framework.
Then, we've introduced forward geocoding.
So now you can do reverse
and forward geocoding.
Then, we've made the results
match your device's locale.
Whatever locale your device is
set to is how the information
from a geocode will return.
This does a lot of work for you.
Now for those of you who
haven't used geocoding before,
a reverse geocode is where you
transform a coordinate into an address.
Conversely, a forward geocode turns an
address into a coordinate,
a latitude and longitude value that
you can use to plot on a map or
use to display data to the user.
We do this using the new
CL Geocoder class in iOS 5.
The new CL Geocoder does both
forward and reverse geocoding.
And this is a fully asynchronous API.
If you need to do more than one request,
then just create additional CL Geocoders.
Finally, this is a network-based service,
so it does require a network connection.
Now, some great enhancements that
we've done to geocoding is that
a map is no longer necessary.
You can display this
data however you want.
This also means that it
deprecates MK Reverse Geocoder.
But for those of you who have
been using it with MK placemarks,
those now inherit from the new
CL placemark so that you can still
plot these results on a map with ease.
The other new class we
have is CL Placemark.
This is how your geocoding
request results will be returned.
A CL Placemark contains
location information,
region information,
address dictionaries of the location,
and descriptive properties.
Now these descriptive
properties are really great.
They're properties such as inland water,
so if you're on a lake,
it can give you the name of a lake.
If you're on an ocean,
it'll give you the name of the ocean.
And of course, you still need to have
a network connection,
so keep that in mind.
And then you can also get this
areas of interest property.
Like at the beginning,
you saw that I turned one
infinite loop into Apple Inc.
This is the kind of information that you
can get out of your geocoding results.
Now you can see here I've done a
reverse geocode on one infinite loop.
And you can see that we get a lot of
information like the sub-Thoroughfare,
which is the building number,
the thoroughfare, which is the street,
and more additional information
such as postal code,
country,
and that areas of interest property.
So how do you actually use CL Geocoder?
Well,
first you create a CL Geocoder object,
and then you call one of the reverse
or forward geocoding methods.
These methods include a completion
handler that you define so that
you can execute some code once the
geocoding request has returned.
The completion handler is
in the form of a block.
And this handler will return an array
of sealed placemarks on success,
and these are sorted by confidence.
Based on the information
that our geocoder receives,
we may have found several
locations that we think will work.
So they will be sorted by
how confident we are that the
result is what you wanted.
Now, if no result could be found,
we're going to return nil.
Additionally, if an error occurred,
an NSError will be returned on failure.
So, why might a geocode fail?
Well, if you have a way for the
user to cancel the request,
maybe they've done just that.
You can use the cancelGeocode
method and cancel a current request.
Additionally, there could be no
results for the geocode.
Geocoding also requires
a network connection,
as I mentioned earlier.
So, if there's a network error,
you may not get a result.
In some situations,
depending on cell towers
and things like that,
we may be able to give you the
country in a reverse geocode.
However, it's not a guarantee
and don't bank on it.
To do a reverse geocode,
the first thing you need to do is
create a sealed geocoder object.
This will do the geocoding for you.
Then you need to create a
location to reverse geocode.
You can see here that I've
created a location using a
latitude and longitude value.
Then you call reverseGeocodeLocation,
passing in the location
that you just created,
and completion handler,
which is the block that will execute
when the geocoding request comes back.
You can see here that I'm just grabbing
the first object from the array.
But you would want to check the
whole array to make sure that you're
using the best value possible.
You would also want to check for the
error in case the request failed.
You can also use the Address
Dictionary capabilities for geocoding.
You can create your geocoder object,
and then you can create an address
dictionary using the Address
Book framework's keys and values.
Then, you call Geocode Address
Dictionary Completion Handler.
This makes it really easy to use
the Address Book with geocoding.
Now, to do forward geocoding,
you still create a CL Geocoder object,
but next,
you create a string for the address.
Now, if this is user input,
you might want to sanitize the
data to make sure that you're not
attempting to geocode a phone number.
From there,
you just call geocodeAddressString
completionHandler,
again, grabbing the result from the
placemarks array that get returned.
Finally,
to narrow down a set of possible results,
you can create a geocoder object and call
GeocodeAddressStringInRegionCompletionH
andler.
This allows you to define a region
that the result should be within.
That way, if you're searching for a town,
there may be a town with the
same name in a nearby state.
This region will narrow
the results that come back.
Next,
let's talk about some best practices
when using the sealed geocoder.
First, I told you that the completion
handler is asynchronous.
So, which thread is this run on
when a request comes back?
It's the main thread.
So, make sure that you account
for this in your application.
Additionally, you only want to send one
request per user action.
It's not a good idea to:
kick off the request and kick off a
bunch of different requests at one time.
Next, you want to reuse results
when at all possible.
You can also use significant location
changes so that as the user moves,
then you decide you need to do a sealed
geocode instead of doing constant
geocoding as the user moves around.
Finally, don't geocode in the background.
Since the completion handler
runs on the main thread,
this is definitely not a good idea.
Now,
you want to make sure that the user can
read the results in their own language.
What may look like a word in
one language could differ by
a lot in another language.
And with geocoding,
we have built-in support
for over 30 languages,
meaning that whichever locale
the user's device is set to,
we're going to try our best to make
sure that the data coming back is
in a language that they understand.
We also have added global
coverage for geocoding.
We currently support over 47 different
regions and territories worldwide.
You can also look for
a tech note on Apple's
Developer Center for an updated list.
Now with geocoding results,
we will try to match the
user's locale from locality up.
Here, you can see a reverse geocode
that has been done in English.
Notice how small the differences
are when switching to Polish.
But if we switch to Russian,
you can see that almost all of
the information has changed.
So we return locale matching
results for locality values on up.
With iOS 5,
geocoding is easier than ever.
You can now do forward
and reverse geocoding,
and we give you additional information
like the areas of interest property.
We match results to the device's locale.
There's a lot of parsing work going on,
and you don't have to
provide a service for it.
Finally, let's talk about testing.
Testing is one of the most important and
often overlooked aspects of development.
When your application goes on sale,
you start to receive feedback from
users that have bought your application.
And usually, this feedback is in the
form of app store reviews.
Well, the last thing you want is to
start getting feedback that says,
"The app hangs if I deny
location services," or,
"It says it works in Europe,
but it really doesn't
work in Europe." So,
how can you take care of this before
you start getting this type of feedback?
Testing location awareness in the
past has been a bit difficult.
You had to drive around with
your computer and device,
testing different areas,
and you can't always get on a
flight and test other countries.
So we've made some great additions to
Xcode and the iOS Simulator to make
testing location apps easier for you.
Let's start with Xcode.
In Xcode, we've added location
support in multiple areas,
like schemes and the debugger.
We also allow you to simulate various
scenarios like specific locations,
a list of major cities,
and you can also use a
GPX file to simulate routes.
So what does a scheme do?
Well, like any good plan,
Xcode 4's schemes have three phases.
Each phase has its own kind of result.
The build phase is
where targets are built,
the test phase is where
testing targets are run,
and then launch phase
launches an executable.
So here you can see if you
go in to edit a scheme,
you can go to the Options tab
and allow location simulation.
From here,
you can set the default location
for testing with this scheme,
you can choose a major city,
or you can define a GPX file to use.
Schemes are really easy to get
to from the toolbar in Xcode.
What you can do is you can
create multiple scenarios and
easily switch between them.
So here I have Sydney,
and if I click on that,
you can see that I have these
other options to quickly
and easily get between.
Additionally, in the debugger,
we've also added the ability
to change the location on the
fly as you test with a device.
You can switch between major cities,
turn simulation off,
and also use GPX files.
So, we've added a lot to Xcode.
And next,
let's look at the iOS Simulator.
This has been a sore spot for
some location testing in the past,
but with the new SDK,
we've added a lot for you.
The simulator is now a
fully-fledged location simulator.
You get location prompts,
status bar icons,
location services menus,
and the authorization states to check.
And you can also reset the location
warnings just like on a device.
This makes it really easy to test a
specific scenario over and over again.
Additionally,
we've added background location
services into the simulator.
You can also do significant
location changes,
and most importantly,
you can do region monitoring now.
A really great feature that
we've added is the ability to set
the location to be any latitude
and longitude value you want.
From the menu bar,
you can do this easily.
You can also test locations
and routes with some predefined
values that we've added,
such as all of the Apple stores,
a bike ride, a city run,
or a freeway drive.
In talking about the simulator though,
keep in mind, the simulator is just that,
a simulation.
It's similar to a device,
it does its best to
imitate a device situation,
but it should be used, in your case,
for development purposes.
This should not be your
final testing scenario.
Now, earlier I mentioned that you can
simulate routes with GPX files.
But what is a GPX file?
GPX stands for GPS Exchange Format.
And this is an open standard
and it's an XML-based file
that represents a collection of
locations known as waypoints.
This collection of locations,
or waypoints,
can create a route that you can
simulate in Xcode and the simulator.
Let's look at an example.
You can see here that it is XML based,
so if you've worked with
XML data in the past,
this will look very familiar.
Then you set up a track or a route,
and each location is a track point.
These include latitude, longitude,
and you can add however many
you want for testing your route.
When we simulate these routes,
we iterate over each point
at about one per second,
so you can see the change quickly
and know that your application
is responding appropriately.
You'll also see that if you
have waypoints that are farther
than one kilometer apart,
we will create points in between to
create a realistic set of results
and iterate over those waypoints
at the rate of one per second.
Finally,
one thing that you can do to best
prepare yourself for any crashes
that may occur within your app once
it's on the App Store is to create an
Xcode archive with your final build.
This includes the binary and
DSIM file that maps addresses
to code within your binary.
By submitting to the App Store with
the same binary that's in this archive,
you can ensure that any and all crash
logs you receive will be able to be
symbolicated within the Xcode organizer.
This is a very helpful tip to
follow so that you can narrow down
issues as soon as they happen.
As you've seen,
by using region monitoring on iOS,
you can create very personal
experiences for your users.
And with the Geocoder,
you can make sure that the user gets
the full benefit from any location
information you have to share with them.
You can also be sure that it's
in a language they understand.
You've also learned how to use the
tools available to create a first
launch experience for your users,
that is a great one.
I'm excited to see how you use
this information to create fun and
interesting location-aware applications.